impr: Enrich the description of architecture (#207)
risingwavelabs/risingwave-docs: reference/architecture.mdx

mode: wide
---

> The **meta node** takes charge of managing the metadata of compute and compactor nodes and orchestrating operations across the system. Here metadata refers to database names, table names, column names, materialized view names, computation progress, and so on. It acts as the brain of the entire system; loss of metadata could lead to data loss or irrecoverability across the cluster. Starting with v2.1.0, RisingWave fully deprecates the etcd meta backend and uses SQL backend to scale metadata. For more information, see the [migration guide](/deploy/migrate-to-sql-backend).

Reviewer: I think we need separate subsections and diagrams for each node type to demonstrate the sub-architecture of each node, instead of describing the internal detail of meta node with barely a rectangle in the diagram.

Author: Good advice! Now listing meta node, compactor node, and compute node each as a separate paragraph.

The **compute nodes** are responsible for ingesting data from upstream systems, parsing and running SQL queries, and delivering data to downstream systems.

> RisingWave employs an LSM (Log-Structured Merge) tree structure to manage the internal state of computations. The LSM tree continuously compacts and packages data, transitioning it from an unordered to an ordered state. The compaction process within the LSM tree consumes a significant amount of computational resources, hence RisingWave introduces separate **compact nodes** to offload the compaction process, minimizing its impact on stream processing.

Reviewer: Change according to the diagram.

```suggestion
RisingWave employs an LSM (Log-Structured Merge) tree structure to manage the internal state of computations. The LSM tree continuously compacts and packages data, transitioning it from an unordered to an ordered state. The compaction process within the LSM tree consumes a significant amount of computational resources, hence RisingWave introduces separate **compactor nodes** to offload the compaction process, minimizing its impact on stream processing.
```

mode: wide
---

<Frame>
  <img src="/images/rw_architecture.png"/>
</Frame>

> The **meta node** takes charge of managing the metadata of compute and compactor nodes and orchestrating operations across the system. Here metadata refers to database names, table names, column names, materialized view names, computation progress, and so on. It acts as the brain of the entire system; loss of metadata could lead to data loss or irrecoverability across the cluster. Starting with v2.1.0, RisingWave fully deprecates the etcd meta backend and uses SQL backend to scale metadata. For more information, see the [migration guide](/deploy/migrate-to-sql-backend).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **meta node** takes charge of managing the metadata of compute and compactor nodes and orchestrating operations across the system. Here metadata refers to the inner representation of databases, tables, materialized views, sources, and so on. Meta node acts as the brain of the entire system; loss of metadata could lead to data loss or irrecoverability across the cluster. Starting with v2.1.0, RisingWave fully deprecates the etcd meta backend and uses SQL backend to scale metadata. For more information, see the [migration guide](/deploy/migrate-to-sql-backend).
```
